And he was nice, very, very, very well up in Exxon.
He and Vaughn had crossed paths somewhere along the line.
So I was just talking to him about it.
He said, listen, there's this guy Vaughn Bryant.
He's the guy, maybe he's the guy.
I contacted Vaughn, and we brought him here, and he went back to Washington State, and he didn't think he was going to accept it first.
And I don't know what it was that turned things around, but anyway, he decided he would come here.
But he, you know, I'm saying again, among the bright spots that I've had
I'm talking about the bright people that I've been with, that really helped a whole lot in a way.
And I think I gained by them being so damn good, you know, it wasn't me, Ty Tim and Vaughn Bryant.
And he really took that program, he ran with it, and man, he is, but anyway, you know, he gave it up just recently.
Really?
Yes.
Because I've told people that I remember when we only had one or two anthropology sections.
That's right.
Certainly not a major.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And now it goes all the way through the Ph.D.
Yeah, yeah.
And he just doesn't try.
And not all that, he's brought in Nautical, all this other stuff that's really big name stuff that a lot of us don't know about.
When, as anthropology was getting that early start, who were your allies in helping it?
Who deserves a pat on the back for... I guess Maxwell, really.
Okay.
I don't think, you know, we just...
Maxwell was just great to us.
And I don't know whether it's just the fact that we were over there as new guys, you know, new kids on the block, he was going to try to help us.
But Maxwell was very, very good to us.
Now I remember in- Chuck McCandless was his light hand man at that time, and Dan somebody was his money man, but we, everything, they were real good to us, just real good.
I remember being, Calhoun and Winerti and I, in recruiting that nautical archaeology, we heard that it was up for grabs, and Vaughan was able to really put that all together.
Any other bright spots that come to your mind like that?
Well, I'm sure there are a lot of them.
Well, when we revise it, if you think of them, can you think of any omissions where we missed an opportunity that now with clarity of hindsight we can spot?
Well,
It's kind of hard to find these, you know, without giving it some real good thought.
I don't, I can't think of any.
You know, yes, sure, it's been nice to advance more rapidly and all that, but given the conditions and everything, I think it's just going very, very well.
I don't know if it's an omission or not, I'll just say it openly though, and that is that I don't know what happened, but while I was at the university, active, I felt like we were a team of people
all-inclusive, everybody for everybody.
And maybe it's just the young people that I talk to a lot, but I don't find many people very happy today.
I'm not, you know, maybe we were, maybe there were people like that, but if they were unhappy in our day, they left.
But I just, you know, it just seemed me like the
how shall I say it, the feeling of loyalty to the university, et cetera.
But that may be not just A&M.
It's probably other schools.
That may be nationwide.
I fear you're correct.
Because I left in 1980 to go to El Paso.
And at that point, I felt we had a kind of a school spirit, a kind of a team feeling.
That's right.
I don't sense that being nearly as strong today.
I wonder, though, to what degree this is true on other campuses.
It's probably the same thing, I would guess.
Yes, I think so.
I think that now we have more people who are highly individualistic.
Right, yes.
and are less inclined to be team players.
All right, let's kind of draw this to a conclusion.
I ask you about your proudest moments.
And how, if I'm not mistaken, these awards, you didn't even know you were going to win it.
That's correct.
How did you, where was that award presentation, and how did you feel when you... It was in Guide Hall.
And I really didn't know.
And I think I'm correct in saying that about all I got any indication was that...
somebody a tie somebody says you know let's go over there you know that kind of stuff it you know but it wasn't i didn't know yeah uh i know really a proud moment i won one the first year i was eligible and i had told one of my buddies that i would kiss his fanny if i ever won one and he came up on the stage later and said he was ready for for me to keep my promise
And there are other people that are more, you talk about highlights of my career, whatever.
Another one of those was that when we hired Jerry Gaston as a department head at Texas A&M.
Now there is, in my opinion, a top, top notch administrator.
How did you all find him?
Okay, let me go back and review a little bit of this again.
I was one of the acting head with no particular time frame.
And about the second year or so, third year, something like that, David Maxwell talked to all of our faculty, et cetera.
And to my knowledge, there's basically one person who's quite key, was going named at the moment, who was in favor with people in the College of Agriculture.
He wanted to keep rural societies separate.
I was very much in favor of saying
let's have a sociology program and let's have the sociology and rural sociology people housed together to be common mates and so on and so on.
And anyway, the other end of that argument went to the other group anyway.
So about that time,
We had a discussion, I had a discussion with, Maxwell had a discussion with me, more or less, and said, you've done a good job, or I'm happy with everything, so and so on.
And nice enough, whether he was being truthful or not, he said, as far as I'm concerned, I'd like to keep you.
And yet there are one or two, he didn't name them, but I knew who they were, who felt like that they wanted somebody else.
So they went out to, and so we were going to get a new department head.
So we got Jim Kopp, and he was a rural sociologist, by the way.
And then at the, I don't know at what point, Maxwell was still here, I think, yeah, we were going to have another review, whatever you want to call it.
And apparently decided that maybe we would have another department head.
And some of the key players in that really were.
What the hell.
He's now an associate dean in liberal arts, oh gosh, that I hired him.
He got him from southern Illinois, Ben Crouch.
And Ben had done his doctorate under Jerry at southern Illinois.
And another factor was that Melvin Brooks, who was my advisor, key advisor here,
He, in the meantime, didn't fit in too well here because he was one of these guys who would bring up questions, you know, and what sort of stuff.
So he ended up in Southern Illinois.
So I guess what really happened is that I called Melvin and said, hey, Melvin, you've got a guy over there that we're, you know, his name has come up.
What do you think?
And he said openly, he said, God, don't take that guy with him.
He's something.
And then I said, well okay, that's the guy that we're for.
But anyway, the other group, some of them, they're always this side and this side.
The other side seemed to try to come up with some reasons that maybe Jerry was not the guy for the job.
And not to go into those, but particularly with Ben having been a student of his and all that,
Ben could say in our faculty meetings that we had about this, hey, listen, this isn't true at all, you know, all that kind of stuff.
Anyway, we got him here.
And so he was just, I think, just tremendous.
And I give him credit, really, for bringing the department to where it is today.
And I also had to credit him with something else.
When it came to the research award business, I had no idea that I was anywhere.
And it may have had, I think it may have had something to do with I was going to be retiring in another couple of years anyhow, you know, all that sort of stuff.
So he wrote one of the very nicest letters.
Oh God.
After all, people review those letters and anyway.
But Jerry is another really highlight.
That guy is terrific and I really think he ought to be the president of a university, tell you.
But at the same time, Jerry is a very direct guy.
One of my weaknesses that I had as department head is that somebody did something that was not really the best.
And the dean would say to me, hey, you know, your guy over there is doing so and so, I was sort of in a position of trying to defend him, you know, say well, and I was not the kind of guy that could go to this guy and say, hey, you know, dadgum, with a few cuss words or whatever, dadgummit, you've done this and the dean is at me and by golly.
Well Jerry is a direct guy and he talks to people very directly.
And I guess that's his, as far as I can see, that's why he may not be a president.
He did, Jerry did his undergraduate work at East Texas State by the way.
I didn't know that.
And then his doctorate at Yale.
But anyway, I've always thought that Jerry would have fit, man, when that job came up at Commerce, he would have been the guy, but that's near the end of there.
But I really, he's a, Jerry's a great guy.
Very, very fine, straight shooter, but just outstanding.
And he's the guy that really brought black people on our staff.
And one or two of these are really very, very highly respected, you know, throughout the nation.
And some of the other people, he's the guy that's responsible for bringing it.
All right, we need to kind of bring this to a finish.
I've got two very general questions.
First one is hypothetical.
What if someone came to you and handed you a check for a million dollars, and there was one condition on that million dollars, you had to pass it on to Texas A&M, but you could decide what it would be spent to do.
What would you have them do with that million dollars?
What would you most want A&M to do with something you would give them?
I'd have to think about that.
I think I would want those to go for scholarships, but specifically what kind, I don't know.
And on what basis would they be awarded?
On the basis of a general kind of like we did in
When Dan Russell retired, we have one that says, in effect, we would like this award to go to a kid who is not the very brightest.
He is not the very, you know, highly accomplished, but he's a hell of a good kid.
He works hard, or she works hard, and they're good, solid people.
I guess that's what I want to do.
I know there are all kinds of awards for the people with the brains, but I would also like to see some awards just for the plain old kids that are struggling.
Okay, the last question.
What feelings do you have in your heart for Texas A&M today?
I have feelings of all the finest things that one could say.
I just think it's a great institution.
I'm very happy that in all the things that have happened, I just, that somehow or another I came here.
I just, I wanted to be the best.
And I realized that against the University of Texas at Austin, we're always going to have to be probably second best.
I want to say this, they're dang good at so many things, you know, and they've got so many things going for them.
I guess I would put it this way.
My feelings would be that I would wish that Texas A&M would be always looked upon as one of the top two in our state and, matter of fact, in the region.
I guess that's what I'd vote for, really.
And I really feel like it's there.
Maybe I'm just biased in that way.
Let's quit with that.